Okay, here we are, we're now up to date.
We're feeling good.
There's no label up here that says
you need to reboot your computer.
The next thing we're gonna do
is we need to create a new user,
because right now, we're running as root.
And the way you can tell
you're running as root is,
well, it says root here, clear this.
So it says root, but the other way you
can always tell you're running root is
there's an octothorpe right here or
a hash sign, whatever you wanna call it.
That's a surefire way of
you're running as root.
We don't wanna run as root.
Root does not double-check anything we do.
Root it's like, okay,
you know what you're doing.
Root is the highest permission
level on an operating system.
It allows you to do anything and
everything.
You wanna rm-rf/,
as in delete your directory,
it'll let you do that and
will not stop you.
So we never wanna run things as root.
If something does require root,
that usually means, hey,
let's put some thought into it.
So the first thing we do
after we update our software,
we're gonna create a new user.
A user that's not root,
but has root access.
We call root access super user.
Usually, and
we run the sudo command to say,
I'm gonna do this as root for
this particular command.
Sudo stands for super user do.
It allows you to run the commands and
programs as root.
So it allows you to run as root as
necessary, but our default is never ever,
ever to run as root, ever, ever, ever.
It's tempting, cuz you're like
I hate sudoing all the time.
It's such a pain, but
it's there for a reason.
These are well-trodden paths, so
keep it the permissions as minimal as
possible do you need to run the programs.
So next, we're gonna create a new user,
because we don't wanna run as root.
So we're gonna create a new user, we're
gonna add that user to the pseudo group.
We're gonna switch that user, and then
we're gonna check pseudo-access just to
double-check that our
user is actually working.
Yea, so if you did sync or
if you did transfer your names
servers over to DigitalOcean, and
they still haven't propagated out, it just
gonna take a while, that's how it goes.
>> Yeah, [INAUDIBLE].
>> But it can take a few hours,
it can take a few seconds.
It really varies on the internet, but
that's kinda all I can say.
That's why we do it pretty early in
the class rather than a little bit later.
So you probably ran into some
interesting things creating a new user,
some weird prompts, so
let's walk through them.
So we don't wanna do things as root, very,
very dangerous, never do things as root.
If you have in the past, you got lucky.
[LAUGH] But again,
not doing things as root will save
you a lot of trouble and pain.
So I wanna create a new user.
So I'm gonna say adduser, and
let's call it jem to keep it simple.
Give it a password,
I keep mine pretty simple here too.
For all these values,
feel free to fill them in if you want.
I'm just gonna hit defaults,
information's correct, cool.
No, no worries there,
you can put room number if you want.
I'm not really gonna change anything,
I think it's just an artifact of Linux.
Next thing wanna do is we wanna make
sure I can do stuff as root as jem,
but only when I want to.
So we're gonna add the user
Jem to the user sudo group.
So to do that,
we're gonna use the usermod command.
So user modify, so usermod,
we're gonna say add -a to the group,
capital G to the sudo errs group,
super users do, jem.
Awesome, next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna switch over to jem user.
So when I say su, switch user jem.
All right, and I'm still in the root, so I
can go home if I want, you don't need to.
And look, I have my own directory and
everything once I create a user.
So every time you create a user,
it creates another directory
under slash home slash whomever.
Now, we wanna check our sudo access.
To do that, there's a lot of ways of doing
it, but I like to access the auth log.
These are things you normally
can't access as a regular user,
you can only do as roots.
So just double-check, we have access.
So I'm gonna say sudo cat,
remember that dumps the whole file.
/var, log and
we wanna look at the auth.log.
It's gonna ask me for
the password, and there we go.
So we've confirmed that
this user has sudo access.
We confirmed that it all works and
we have this new user, great.
So the next thing we wanna do is
we wanna disable the root access.
We definitely, definitely don't
wanna have root open to the public,
cuz that's the number one thing.
Or let's say, not so good actors want
to do is they wanna log in as root.
Because, again, once you have root,
you can do literally anything.
There's unrestricted access to the system.
But to do that,
we're gonna need to create a new way for
our user we just created
to log in to our system.
So in our home directory,
we wanna create an authorized key file.
And authorized keys is where
our public key is gonna sit.
So that means whenever we log in as now
user is gonna check to the public key.
And then it's gonna authenticate
against my private key,
that's gonna allow me to log in
as a different user entirely.
There's a lot of different
ways of doing this.
This is probably the most simple way,
so let's do that together.
So I'm gonna switch to my home directory,
it's clear.
So let's create this directory
if it doesn't exist, ls-la.
I don't see a.ssh directory,
so let's make one, mkdir.ssh.
Now, we can cd into that, and
we're gonna create an authorized key file.
So there's different ways of doing this.
We'll just touch it for now, Rather than
vi, because we don't have the key yet.
That way we can switch over to a new
terminal without having to exit
out authorized keys.
Sure I spell that right?
ls, okay.
So the next thing we need to do is we need
to put our public key into the authorized
key file.
So there's different ways of doing this.
I'm gonna do this the long way,
that's probably the way you're at.
You're also welcome to open up a new
terminal, get your public key and
paste it back in, but
I'm gonna do this the longer way.
So I'm gonna exit.
And notice, I didn't exit the server,
because I actually just created
a new shell whenever I switch user.
I just created a new
shell with that new user.
So when I exit, I'm just jumping back
to the shell I logged in originally, so
I need to exit again.
Next, I wanna cat that public key.
So that's those full stack, front end,
pub, and I'm just gonna copy this.
There is a command to just do this
all at once and I used to teach that,
but it's so long and so verbose.
It's not really saying anything.
This is probably more of the default way.
You usually don't exit the server and
paste things back in, but it's okay for
the course's class.
So now that I have my key,
I'm just gonna log back in as root,
cuz we're still don't have the login for
jem, my new user yet.
Let's switch back over to jem just,
because I don't like being roots.
cd, and then we're gonna edit
that authorized key file.
Ssh authorized keys, I'm gonna insert.
I'm just gonna paste that in,
and then I'm gonna right quit.
All right, so now, let's test it out.
Let's see if it worked.
So we're gonna exit,
we're gonna exit again.
So this time, I'm gonna ssh, but I'm
gonna use my new user instead of roots.
Let's see if this worked.
Hey, there we go, not bad, not bad at all.
And if that didn't work,
one double-check you created,
you spelled authorized keys correctly,
it's kind of a longer file name.
Double-check, you copy and pasted your
public key and not your private one.
You'll notice it's the private one,
cuz the private one is substantially
longer than your public one.
And then make sure you exit in,
and make sure you're trying to log in with
your new username at your IP address.
Yes.
>> I guess it's kinda obvious here, but
the ssh key,
you can even have it associated with
as many users as you want on the server.
It's purely that you're
connecting from this my laptop.
It's giving me access to the server with
whatever user I want as long as I've added
the public key to the user on the server.
>> Yeah, exactly right.
The question was, aren't ssh keys
tied to users or your computer?
They're mostly tied to your computer.
You can use one ssh key to do everything.
Use the same one for GitHub,
use the same one for your computer,
use the same one for
anything, totally up to you.
I'm not against that,
ssh is usually pretty secure.
I don't think you need an ssh key for
every single instance, but it's up to you.
You can make it complex,
you can make it simple.
But in general, it's usually
a pretty safe way of doing things.